---
layout: post
title: "On Stripe"
date: 2017-01-04T23:53:51-05:00
---

<section>

Interning at Stripe was one of the best experiences of my career. Now that I've
chosen to return there after graduation, I'd like to share some of my
thoughts.[^opinion] Stripe is a great company, founded on solid engineering
discipline, with a great future. I strongly encourage those who have the chance
to work at Stripe to do it.

[^opinion]: {-}
  I'd also like to give the usual disclaimer: this is just my opinion. These are
  my views, tainted by my background, shaped by my experiences. Any critical
  feedback that I give here I do with the hope that it will help make Stripe an
  even better place.

</section>
<section>

<span class="newthought">I'll be honest: I came in to Stripe</span> utterly
unfit to answer questions posed by my friends like, "Oh, you're interning at
Stripe? What do they do?" An innocuous question sure, but equally difficult for
me to answer—it wasn't until my first day that I learned the answer. I'm really
passionate about what Stripe does; it's both worthwhile in the long run and
engaging on a daily basis.

So what is Stripe? If you ever get the chance to meet with someone on the PR
team, they might say something like:

> Stripe is a software platform for building an internet business. Stripe helps
> companies like Lyft, Kickstarter, Facebook, and others sell to anyone,
> anywhere, and in new ways.

This is steeped in PR rhetoric, but nonetheless does a good job of setting the
stage. There's a lot of meaning squished into those two sentences, so let's
un-squish it.

- **Stripe is a software platform.** It's software that enables other software.
  But what *kind* of software does it enable?
- **Stripe is for building an internet business.** Stripe's software aims to
  simplify the process of conducting business online. This is purposefully
  broad, but for example, Stripe helps businesses accept payments, keep track of
  customers, analyze fraud, simplify subscriptions, and more.
- **Stripe has big-name customers.** This isn't just some random startup. Stripe
  is the go-to choice for established companies, in addition to smaller
  upstarts.
- **Stripe helps others sell to anyone, anywhere, and in new ways.** Companies
  in more than 20 countries and customers around the world can transact using
  Stripe. Stripe also focuses on how to make complicated problems simple,
  leading to new, better products for businesses.

That's "what Stripe is," but that's not "what excites me about Stripe." I don't
run an internet business, certainly never one headquartered overseas.
Nevertheless, Stripe appeals to me individually.

Stripe puts developers first. While Stripe's product is for businesses, it's the
software developers at that business who directly consume the product. Those
developers take significant time and effort to build their app or product on top
of the software platform that Stripe curates. Being a developer, I can't help
but smile that a company has its priorities this far aligned with my peers.

This is a two-way street as well. It's awesome to work at a company that my
peers recognize as a valuable and reputable tool for building the things they
want to. When I tell my friends I work at Stripe, I say it like a badge of
honor, because I feel like I've contributed back to the developer community.

In line with this, Stripe's business intentions are clear. Stripe earns money on
every transaction. It's in Stripe's best interest to help businesses grow,
because Stripe can't profit without first helping other businesses to profit.
This is uncommon in internet companies. Some make money by advertising, which
usually[^ads] amounts to a company stealing its users personal information.
Other companies use marketing campaigns to trick customers into buying something
that's useful, but which they might not really need. On the other hand, Stripe
provides a real need and profits alongside them, not in spite of them.

[^ads]:
  Admittedly, I have a rather antagonistic view of advertising in general.

This idea of helping businesses grow isn't just an afterthought: it's another of
Stripe's core values. Phrased a little differently, Stripe arms upstarts to
compete with well-established contenders. Companies like Amazon have the size
and sway to chat with a bank, set up an account, and procure the ability to
charge credit cards. The college freshman making a business from a laptop in a
dorm room might not have that luxury. Stripe enables upstarts like this to start
accepting payments from day one.

That's a pretty cool image. The internet should be a place where anyone can
carve out their own homestead, rather than only those with an army big enough to
fight for them. By arming upstarts, Stripe empowers future generations to use
the internet to change their little (or big!) part of the world.

</section>
<section>

<span class="newthought">So for a number of reasons</span>, Stripe's mission
excites me. The future Stripe sees for the internet is a future I'd be proud to
say I helped create. But Stripe's vision is only the foundation upon which
company culture is built. Stripe's culture inspires personal growth and a drive
to achieve great things.

The people at Stripe were[^past] ridiculously talented, pervasively
thoughtful, and humble. By "ridiculously talented," I'm talking about the
feeling where you walk into a meeting and feel like the least talented person
there---every time. To exemplify "pervasively thoughtful," at company-wide
all-hands meetings, it seemed like everyone was two steps ahead with an
insightful question. And throughout it all people at Stripe were humble.
Certainly each person is different, but these traits stood out among people at
Stripe.

[^past]: {-}
  I don't mean to imply that this *is no longer* the case! While writing this, I
  am not *currently* at Stripe; I'm addressing my experience.

At the top of it all are two confident and passionate co-founders: John and
Patrick Collison. In a company full of talented and thoughtful people, this duo
topped the charts. Richard Hamming talks of "first-class" people in his seminar
*You and Your Research*[^research]. Whenever I think of the kinds of people
Hamming describes in this talk, I immediately think of these two, because
hearing them speak inspires a sense of drive to become better. Just, truly great
men.

[^research]:
  [You and Your Research](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html),
  by Richard Hamming. *Worth the read.*

It's important to me who I surround myself with. I was reminded this summer that
"we are 5% ourselves, and 95% our cohort."[^qasar] The people at Stripe embody
the type of person I would like to become.

[^qasar]:
  Qasar Younis of Y Combinator mentioned this at an event for YC interns. He
  made some wild remarks that evening, but this one is spot on.

Speaking from a broader perspective, the culture at Stripe is fueled by a sense
of urgency. While Stripe has been around longer than most startups, it's by no
means well established. People at Stripe still act as though they have something
to prove, even though they've come a long way. They work hard without
overworking themselves, trying to prove themselves every day. This urgency
arises from a fear that Stripe might not reach its full potential---a fear of
not achieving Stripe's dream for the internet.

</section>
<section>

<span class="newthought">I want this dream to come true.</span> I want to become
the kind of person that abounds at Stripe. Stripe's plan is worthwhile and
challenging, and the group of people at Stripe are talented and thoughtful
enough to see it through. Overall, I'm excited to be a part of Stripe, and I
look forward to seeing where we go.

</section>
